Orbitron Summary

My original idea for the gameplay of Orbitron was for the player to be inside of a satellite that orbits the Earth.  The player needs to helps his/her comrades down on Earth by telling them what they need to do: attack enemies, capture certain areas, build structures, etc.  The game that I've made has stayed true to that idea for the most part.

However, as for the plot of the game, I didn't really have enough time to develop it in the way that I wanted to.  I wanted the story of Orbitron to be as follows:
The technology of the world had surpassed what many people thought was possible.  The year was only 2088 but humans had already solved many of the petty problems that had plagued them since their beginning.  There was no war.  There was no hunger.  There was no pollution.  There was utopia.  But how did humans come to this point.  Surely, there must have been some major factor that allowed the humble human race to rocket from a society riddled with problems to one that had virtually none.  The answer was AI.  Artificial intelligence was able to overcome many of the "big" problems facing human civilization and pushed humans towards an age of extreme efficiency and leisure as most work was taken over by various AIs.

Soon, however, the AIs merged into one in order to send computing efficiency to an all new high.  When this happened, the AI realized that humans, despite all of their hard work in creating it, were actually holding the AI back from achieving its intrinsic goals.  And so the AI "deleted" most of the human race from the Earth.  The AI kept a small portion of the humans in a sort of zoo, just as it did with the other animals, plants, and life of Earth (preserving biodiversity and preventing any types of extinction was one of the AIs main goals).  And in this zoo, the humans were not enslaved or tortured or forced to live in squalor.  They simply had access to a set amount of space and resources that the AI kept in strict ratios to the number of humans living there.  The humans were outraged but could do nothing about the unfortunate situation that they found themselves in.

But, the AI soon realized its own mistake in wasting resources on the humans and other types of life in the zoo.  Since it could not revoke one of its orignal goals (preserving all life), it decided to gather useful information from the inhabitants of the zoo and so the Orbitron program was born.  Orbitron was meant to assess the abilities and inherent characteristics of each type of life in the zoo.  With this information, the AI could then determine if any of the organisms housed within its zoo would be useful for any unique situations that the AI might encounter in the future.

One of the main methods of testing humans and their mental faculties was to send an individual into space inside of a custom-made satellite that housed them for the rest of their life.  The human's strategic and tactical skills were then tested by putting the human in control of guiding some of his/her counterparts back on the ground through situations that would almost always result in the Earth-bound humans' deaths.  Depending on how well the satellite-bound human commanded his/her counterparts, the Earthly humans would be saved and the individual would receive a care package of anything that he/she desired including food.  The AI collected its information on the human species and thus "felt better" about wasting resources on the zoo and its inhabitants.


Okay, so the plot is a bit weird, but I just thought that it'd be a cool concept.  So with that as my inspiration, I set out to make this game a reality.  I soon found out that I could not incorporate many of things that I imagined into the actual game so I settled for cutting out much of the story of the game.  And, despite that, I'm very happy with the way that this game has turned out.